# Application of blockchain for secure fund raising
<br>

# Problem Statement and nescessity<br>
Campaigning simply refers to the idea of raising funds for a project or cause through a large group of people online. <br>Individuals or small businesses can take advantage of it to get early-stage support for their ideas. People who need help can also go to these platforms for help. <br>People often request over the internet for funds to help their dear ones which suffer from diseases and whose treatment requires high money. <br>The major problems with the Current campaigning Platforms that we wanted to solve were:<br>
<br>-Security: As the donations/money become larger, they need to be highly secure, although strict measures such as TLS encryption are in place to make e-payment safe and secure, it is still vulnerable to hacking. Blockchain which is new and hasn’t been explored a lot can provide that level of security.
<br>-Transparency and Anti-Fraud: It's really important that, if a person donates money to someone, it should rightly go into the hands of the right person, i.e., no middleman just come in between and take all the money. Along with this, the money which the person donate is used in the correct place and is also of major importance. Nowadays many such scams can be seen when a person which donates money, his money goes to the wrong place. Blockchain, with its current characteristics, could solve these problems.
<br>-Cyber Crime: Cybercrime is any criminal activity that involves a computer, networked device, or network. While most cybercrimes are carried out in order to generate profit for the cybercriminals. Cybercriminals could easily disrupt the transaction and can hack the money and it would neither be with the manager nor with the person donating money.
Thus such problems, mentioned above could be solved by introducing blockchain
technology into the current platforms.

# Proposed system
• We propose a Decentralized Application powered by Ethereum Blockchain, where all the information about campaigns, contributions, withdrawal requests, and funds are kept on a Blockchain Network, visible to all and decentralized.
<br>• This means the funds and transactions are visible to all the contributors and stored at every node on the blockchain, and prevents the data from being stored in a centralized server, a single location. Hence not letting the money get into the hands of anyone and eliminating every possibility of it getting misused.

# System requirements<br>
<b>Hardware:</b><br>
• A dual core CPU @ 2.7GHz or above<br>
• Fast internet connection<br>
• 4GB RAM or above<br>
• Secondary storage device <br>
<b>Software:</b><br>
• Compatible version of any Linux, Mac OS or Windows OS<br>
• Compatible Web browser with Metamask chrome extension<br>

# Documents and ppts for references:
1) Overview idea - <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yLiIidN4cPeVXkmx4BNI-f-i1JlUW1XW/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=107743388838337442581&rtpof=true&sd=true"> Click here </a>to see the introductory ppt.<br>
2) Detailed PPT - <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1p-VRYR6UniR1Vlm_ATY-JTahLjcvo6S3/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=107743388838337442581&rtpof=true&sd=true"> Click here</a> for detailed ppt<br>
3) Report Index - <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V0qlXtugomY2i6dGn4eqs7-pq_SUwqs5/view?usp=sharing">Click here</a> for report index.<br>
4) Report content - <a href = "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V0qlXtugomY2i6dGn4eqs7-pq_SUwqs5/view?usp=sharing"> Click here</a> to check the report.<br>
5) Concluding ppt - <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xLFCR26_rubK7JUCyJ7xYuk5ZqcMVTuT/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=107743388838337442581&rtpof=true&sd=true"> Click here </a> to see the concluding ppt<br>

# Conclusion
This project can be implemented for secure fund raising. This project signifies to have a transparency among the contributors who has invested in the campaign. The smart contract helps in sending the contributor’s money directly to the vendors to fulfil the request generated by the manager without the involvement of any third party. Many existing methods suffer from a lack of transparency and fraud. Hence, this problem had to be addressed and we ensured that we provide a platform that is highly secured and feasible. This Project will make the fund raising experience better and can be further used successfully by various organizations and students for their campaign, project, or their start-ups.
